Introduction
============

Purpose and Scope
-----------------

This Responsible AI content for Note Summarization - Patient Discharge
Summary aligns to the CHAI Responsible AI Guide (RAIG) (formerly known
as, Assurance Standards Guide) by creating a set of best practice
guidance applicable for developers and implementers of generative AI
note summarization - patient discharge summary solutions used in
healthcare organizations. This Responsible AI content includes:

#. Testing and Evaluation (T&E) Framework: a consensus-defined set of
   methods, metrics, and benchmarks for developers and implementers to
   more concretely evaluate the responsible use of generative AI
   solutions for note summarization - patient discharge summary. The T&E
   Framework varies based on use case type.

Individuals involved in the process to develop, deploy, and monitor an
AI-enabled note summarization - patient discharge summary solution may
leverage the content within this consensus-driven, member-driven
Responsible AI content to evaluate their solution for Responsible AI
guidance. Teams using this Responsible AI content should identify the AI
lifecycle stage, as described in CHAI's RAIG, that is most applicable to
their organizational scenario. They should then work with all relevant
teams and stakeholders to align and leverage the methods, metrics,
measures, and benchmarks defined in the Testing & Evaluation Framework
to evaluate and assess the responsible use of AI.

Audience
--------

This Responsible AI content is for developers and implementers of note
summarization - patient discharge summary AI solutions used in
healthcare organizations:

- Developers: individuals involved in the software development process,
  including requirements gathering, design, coding, testing, and
  maintenance of software applications (derived from IEEE, 12207:2017)

- Implementers: a person or organization that is responsible for the
  realization of a system or component in accordance with a specified
  design (derived from IEEE 829 and IEEE 730)

- Healthcare organizations: "a health care organization is a
  purposefully designed, structured social system developed for the
  delivery of health care services by specialized workforces to defined
  communities, populations, or markets."

Use Case Description
--------------------

Note summarization - patient discharge summary: the patient discharge
summary use case refers to clinical documentation that summarizes the
course of a patient's stay at a medical facility. This is commonly used
to support communication related to transitions of care, such as from
the hospital to either home or to a skilled nursing facility. The
patient discharge summary is a specific type of document where a
patient's hospital course is summarized using notes generated during the
hospital stay and is part of the official medical record. The primary
consumer of the patient discharge summary is the provider, and the
secondary consumer is the patient.

