Introduction
============

Purpose and Scope
-----------------

This Responsible AI content for Sepsis Risk Prediction aligns to the
CHAI Responsible AI Guide (RAIG) (formerly known as, Assurance Standards
Guide) by creating a set of best practice guidance applicable for
developers and implementers of predictive AI sepsis risk prediction
solutions used in healthcare organizations. This Responsible AI content
includes:

#. Testing and Evaluation (T&E) Framework: a consensus-defined set of
   methods, metrics, measures, and benchmarks for developers and
   implementers to more concretely evaluate the responsible use of
   predictive AI solutions for sepsis risk prediction. The T&E Framework
   varies based on use case type.

Individuals involved in the process to develop, deploy, and monitor an
AI-enabled sepsis risk prediction solution may leverage the content
within this consensus-driven, member-driven Responsible AI content to
evaluate their solution for Responsible AI guidance. Teams using this
Responsible AI content should identify the AI lifecycle stage, as
described in CHAI's RAIG, that is most applicable to their
organizational scenario. They should then work with all relevant teams
and stakeholders to align and leverage the methods, metrics, measures,
and benchmarks defined in the Testing & Evaluation Framework to evaluate
and assess the responsible use of AI.

Audience
--------

This Responsible AI content is for developers and implementers of sepsis
risk prediction AI solutions used in healthcare organizations. \*
Developers: individuals involved in the software development process,
including requirements gathering, design, coding, testing, and
maintenance of software applications (derived from IEEE, 12207:2017) 

- Implementers: a person or organization that is responsible for the
  realization of a system or component in accordance with a specified
  design (derived from IEEE 829 and IEEE 730)

- Healthcare organizations: “a health care organization is a
  purposefully designed, structured social system developed for the
  delivery of health care services by specialized workforces to defined
  communities, populations, or markets.”

Use Case Description
--------------------

Sepsis risk prediction use case: a machine learning-based early warning
system designed to detect potential sepsis cases in real time, enabling
timely intervention and improved patient outcomes. Integrated into
hospital clinical workflows, the system generates alerts for healthcare
providers, including physicians and clinical staff, to identify
high-risk patients who would benefit from prompt treatment. The system's
effectiveness is assessed based on provider interactions, particularly
whether alerts are confirmed within three hours, and the subsequent
initiation of sepsis treatments such as antibiotic therapy. Key
stakeholders include patients, healthcare providers, hospital
administrators, and researchers evaluating its impact.

